introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Welcome to Autumn
description: "Autumn is an open-source platform to manage your pricing plans and billing. We're happy to have you here."
---

<img src="/assets/screenshots/hero.png" />

Autumn is your application's pricing and billing engine. It tracks what your customers get access to, enforces those access limits for each customer, and connects it all seamlessly to Stripe.

<Card
  title="Join us on Discord"
  icon="discord"
  href="https://discord.gg/STqxY92zuS"
>
  Connect with us, other users, and get integration support within minutes
  (we're always online)
</Card>

## Why use Autumn?

Autumn is loved by developers, founders and fast-growing startups because it's easy to integrate and **billing never has to be touched again**.

1. **The most simple integration available** - Just 2 API calls to set up any pricing model. You don't need to deal with webhooks, state syncing, or deal with any of Stripe's APIs.
2. **Enforce access limits** - Autumn knows who's paying for which product and what features they have access to. Just [check](/features/check.mdx) if a customer has access, then [track](/features/tracking-usage.mdx) any usage if needed.
3. **Billing flows handled** - Upgrades, downgrades, failed payments, and more. Autumn takes care of it all, with customizable UI components that "just work" out of the box.
4. **Make changes without touching code** - Make pricing changes, set custom plans, or launch new types of pricing without going through engineering. Versioning, grandfathering and migrations is easy through the Autumn dashboard.

## What Autumn isn't

- A Stripe billing replacement: although you don't need to deal with Stripe's APIs, you are still using Stripe's subscriptions, payments and invoicing.
- Another metered billing product: Autumn easily handles usage-based billing up to 100 events per second, but there are many providers out there that specialize if you need more.
- For purely sales-led companies: Autumn is designed to be used by product-led, or hybrid product-sales teams. If your customers only pay via custom invoices, Autumn is probably not for you.

<Info>
  We will have functionality to handle these use-cases in the near future.
</Info>

Commit message:

Enhance documentation by adding a new page on "understanding" to the navigation and expanding the introduction section with additional FAQs about Autumn's billing and feature management capabilities. Update import statement for the PaywallDialog component for clarity.

introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Welcome to Autumn
description: "Autumn is an open-source platform to manage your pricing plans and billing. We're happy to have you here."
---

<img src="/assets/screenshots/hero.png" />

Autumn is your application's pricing and billing engine. It tracks what your customers get access to, enforces those access limits for each customer, and connects it all seamlessly to Stripe.

This means all of the logic that you would typically have to build yourself is done for you.

- How do I limit usage of this feature to 10 per month, then reset?
- How would I bill users who go over the limit?
- How do I build in-app flows for upgrading, downgrading, cancelling?
- What if I want add-ons, or credits?
- My billing is at the org level. How do I track feature limits at the user level?
- What happens to their usage if they upgrade, or downgrade, or cancel?
- How can I block access if payment fails?
- How would I migrate people if I change my pricing?
- What should I do if I want a custom plan for different customers?

Autumn takes care of all of this, and more.

<Card
  title="Join us on Discord"
  icon="discord"
  href="https://discord.gg/STqxY92zuS"
>
  Connect with us, other users, and get integration support within minutes
  (we're always online)
</Card>

## Why use Autumn?

Autumn is loved by developers, founders and fast-growing startups because it's easy to integrate and **billing never has to be touched again**.

1. **The simplest integration you'll find** - Just 2 API calls to set up any pricing model. You don't need to deal with webhooks, state syncing, or deal with any of Stripe's APIs.
2. **Enforce access limits** - Autumn knows who's paying for which product and what features they have access to. Just [check](/features/check.mdx) if a customer has access, then [track](/features/tracking-usage.mdx) any usage if needed.
3. **Billing flows handled** - Upgrades, downgrades, failed payments, and more. Autumn takes care of it all, with customizable UI components that "just work" out of the box.
4. **Make changes without touching code** - Make pricing changes, set custom plans, or launch new types of pricing without going through engineering. Versioning, grandfathering and migrations is easy through the Autumn dashboard.

## What Autumn isn't

- A Stripe billing replacement: although you don't need to deal with Stripe's APIs, you are still using Stripe's subscriptions, payments and invoicing.
- Another metered billing product: Autumn easily handles usage-based billing up to 100 events per second, but there are many providers out there that specialize if you need more.
- For purely sales-led companies: Autumn is designed to be used by product-led, or hybrid product-sales teams. If your customers only pay via custom invoices, Autumn is probably not for you.

<Info>
  We will have functionality to handle these use-cases in the near future.
</Info>
