api-reference/hooks/useCustomer.mdx, before:

---
title: "useCustomer()"
description: "Access a customer's state and use it to display information in your React app"
---

The `useCustomer` hook provides access to customer data and related operations. You can use it from your frontend to retrieve customer information, manage loading states, and create entities.

<Note>
  To use Autumn's React hooks, you should set up the `autumnHandler` in your
  backend and the `<AutumnProvider />` in your frontend, as described in the
  [quickstart guide](/quickstart/quickstart#4-mount-the-autumn-handler). This
  gives the hooks access to the customerId making the request.
</Note>

## Parameters

<ParamField body="expand" type="string[]">
  Array of additional data to include in the customer response. Options may
  include `invoices`, `trials_used` or `rewards`.
</ParamField>

## `customer`

The customer object containing all customer data.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CustomerProfile() {
  const { customer } = useCustomer({ expand: ["invoices"] });

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Customer Profile</h2>
      <p>Name: {customer?.name}</p>
      <p>Email: {customer?.email}</p>
      <p>Balance: {customer?.features.chat_messages?.balance}</p>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## `attach()`

Opens a checkout URL for the user to make a payment. If the payment method already exists, the purchase will be handled automatically (eg, for upgrades/downgrades).

<Tip>
  Check out the [billing flows](/quickstart/billing-flows) page to see how to
  handle upgrade/downgrade confirmation flows.
</Tip>

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function PurchaseButton() {
  const { attach } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        await attach({
          productId: "pro",
        });
      }}
    >
      Upgrade to Pro
    </button>
  );
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="productId" type="string" required>
  The ID of the product to attach.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="dialog" type="(data: any) => JSX.Element | React.ReactNode">
  A dialog that pops up to confirm the purchase (eg, for upgrades/downgrades).
  See the [billing flows](/quickstart/billing-flows#usage) page.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="entityId" type="string">
  The ID of the entity (eg, user seat) to attach the product to.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="options" type="AttachFeatureOptions[]">
  Array of feature options to configure for the attachment. Each option contains
  `featureId` (string) and `quantity` (number).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="productIds" type="string[]">
  Array of additional product IDs to attach simultaneously.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="freeTrial" type="boolean">
  Whether to disable free trials for this product. Only applicable if the
  product has a free trial.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="successUrl" type="string">
  URL to redirect to after successful attachment/checkout.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="metadata" type="Record<string, string>">
  Additional metadata to pass onto Stripe.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="forceCheckout" type="boolean">
  Whether to force the checkout flow even if the payment method already exists.
  Not available for upgrades/downgrades.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="openInNewTab" type="boolean" default="false">
  Whether to open the checkout URL in a new tab.
</ParamField>

## `allowed`

Check if a user has access to a specific feature or product. This will be read from the `customer` state object on the frontend (so no API call is made).

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function FeatureGate({ children }) {
  const { allowed } = useCustomer();

  return <div>{allowed({ featureId: "analytics" }) ? children : null}</div>;
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="featureId" type="string">
  The ID of the feature to check access for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="productId" type="string">
  The ID of the product to check access for.
</ParamField>

## `check()`

Check if a user has access to a specific feature or product. This will make an API call to Autumn to check access. You can use this to always get the most up-to-date usage data.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function FeatureGate({ children }) {
  const { check } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        const { data, error } = await check({
          featureId: "chat-messages",
          requiredBalance: 7,
        });
      }}
    >
      Send 7 Messages
    </button>
  );
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="featureId" type="string">
  The ID of the feature to check access for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="productId" type="string">
  The ID of the product to check access for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="dialog" type="(data: any) => JSX.Element | React.ReactNode">
  A dialog that pops up to act as a paywall (eg, when a feature runs out). See
  the [billing flows](/quickstart/billing-flows) page.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="entityId" type="string">
  The ID of the entity (customer/user) to check access for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="requiredBalance" type="number">
  The required balance/usage amount to check against.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="sendEvent" type="boolean">
  Whether to send an event when checking access.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="withPreview" type="boolean">
  Return preview data to display to the user. Using this with a `featureID` will
  return paywall data, and using it with a `productId` will return
  upgrade/downgrade data.
</ParamField>

## `track()`

Track usage events for features or custom analytics.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function ApiCallButton() {
  const { track } = useCustomer();

  const handleApiCall = async () => {
    // Make your API call
    await makeApiCall();

    // Track the usage
    await track({
      featureId: "api-calls",
      value: 1,
      idempotencyKey: `api-call-${Date.now()}`,
    });
  };

  return <button onClick={handleApiCall}>Make API Call</button>;
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="featureId" type="string">
  The ID of the feature to track usage for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="eventName" type="string">
  Custom event name for tracking.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="entityId" type="string">
  The ID of the entity (customer/user) to track usage for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="value" type="number">
  The value/quantity to track (e.g., number of API calls, storage used).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="idempotencyKey" type="string">
  Unique key to prevent duplicate tracking events.
</ParamField>

## `openBillingPortal()`

Open the billing portal for customers to manage their subscriptions, payment methods, and billing information.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function BillingSettings() {
  const { openBillingPortal } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        await openBillingPortal({
          returnUrl: "/settings/billing",
        });
      }}
    >
      Manage Billing
    </button>
  );
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="returnUrl" type="string">
  URL to redirect to when the customer exits the billing portal.
</ParamField>

## `cancel()`

Cancel a product or subscription for a user/entity.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CancelSubscription() {
  const { cancel } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        await cancel({ productId: "pro" });
      }}
    >
      Cancel Subscription
    </button>
  );
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="productId" type="string" required>
  The ID of the product to cancel.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="cancelImmediately" type="boolean">
  Whether to cancel the product immediately. If false, the product will be
  cancelled at the end of the billing cycle.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="entityId" type="string">
  The ID of the entity (customer/user) to cancel the product for.
</ParamField>

## `refetch`

Function to manually refetch the `customer` data, eg when updating a customer's usage or balance to display.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CustomerWithRefresh() {
  const { customer, refetch } = useCustomer();
  const { track } = useCustomer();

  const sendMessage = async () => {
    await track({ featureId: "chat_messages" });
    await refetch();
  };

  return <button onClick={sendMessage}>Send Message</button>;
}
```

## `createEntity`

Function to create one or more [entities](/features/feature-entities) for the customer.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CreateUserSeat() {
  const { createEntity } = useCustomer();

  const handleCreateSeat = async () => {
    const { data, error } = await createEntity({
      id: "user_abc",
      name: "John Doe",
      featureId: "seats",
    });
    console.log("Created entity:", data);
  };
}

return <button onClick={handleCreateSeat}>Create User Seat</button>;
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="id" type="string" required>
  The ID of the entity to create.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="name" type="string">
  Display name for the entity.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="featureId" type="string">
  The feature ID for the entity being created. Must be a `continuous_use`
  feature.
</ParamField>

## `isLoading`

Boolean indicating whether the customer data is currently being fetched.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CustomerLoader() {
  const { customer, isLoading } = useCustomer();

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading customer data...</div>;
  }

  return <div>Welcome, {customer?.name}!</div>;
}
```

## `error`

Any error that occurred while fetching customer data.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CustomerWithError() {
  const { customer, error, isLoading } = useCustomer();

  if (error) {
    return <div>Error loading customer: {error.message}</div>;
  }

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }

  return <div>Customer: {customer?.name}</div>;
}
```

Commit message:

docs(hooks, quickstart): clarify `attach()` behavior and introduce `AttachDialog` usage

api-reference/hooks/useCustomer.mdx, after:

---
title: "useCustomer()"
description: "Access a customer's state and use it to display information in your React app"
---

The `useCustomer` hook provides access to customer data and related operations. You can use it from your frontend to retrieve customer information, manage loading states, and create entities.

<Note>
  To use Autumn's React hooks, you should set up the `autumnHandler` in your
  backend and the `<AutumnProvider />` in your frontend, as described in the
  [quickstart guide](/quickstart/quickstart#4-mount-the-autumn-handler). This
  gives the hooks access to the customerId making the request.
</Note>

## Parameters

<ParamField body="expand" type="string[]">
  Array of additional data to include in the customer response. Options may
  include `invoices`, `trials_used` or `rewards`.
</ParamField>

## `customer`

The customer object containing all customer data.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CustomerProfile() {
  const { customer } = useCustomer({ expand: ["invoices"] });

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Customer Profile</h2>
      <p>Name: {customer?.name}</p>
      <p>Email: {customer?.email}</p>
      <p>Balance: {customer?.features.chat_messages?.balance}</p>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## `attach()`

Opens a checkout URL for the user to make a payment. If the payment method already exists, a payment confirmation dialog (AttachDialog) will be opened.

You can override the default dialog by passing in a `dialog` prop, or disable it by passing in `disableDialog: true` into `<AutumnProvider />`.

<Tip>
  Check out the [billing flows](/quickstart/billing-flows) page to see how to
  handle upgrade/downgrade confirmation flows.
</Tip>

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function PurchaseButton() {
  const { attach } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        await attach({
          productId: "pro",
        });
      }}
    >
      Upgrade to Pro
    </button>
  );
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="productId" type="string" required>
  The ID of the product to attach.
</ParamField>
<ParamField body="dialog" type="(data: any) => JSX.Element | React.ReactNode">
  A dialog that pops up to confirm the purchase (eg, for upgrades/downgrades).
  See the [billing flows](/quickstart/billing-flows#usage) page.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="entityId" type="string">
  The ID of the entity (eg, user seat) to attach the product to.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="options" type="AttachFeatureOptions[]">
  Array of feature options to configure for the attachment. Each option contains
  `featureId` (string) and `quantity` (number).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="productIds" type="string[]">
  Array of additional product IDs to attach simultaneously.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="freeTrial" type="boolean">
  Whether to disable free trials for this product. Only applicable if the
  product has a free trial.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="successUrl" type="string">
  URL to redirect to after successful attachment/checkout.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="metadata" type="Record<string, string>">
  Additional metadata to pass onto Stripe.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="forceCheckout" type="boolean">
  Whether to force the checkout flow even if the payment method already exists.
  Not available for upgrades/downgrades.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="openInNewTab" type="boolean" default="false">
  Whether to open the checkout URL in a new tab.
</ParamField>

## `allowed`

Check if a user has access to a specific feature or product. This will be read from the `customer` state object on the frontend (so no API call is made).

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function FeatureGate({ children }) {
  const { allowed } = useCustomer();

  return <div>{allowed({ featureId: "analytics" }) ? children : null}</div>;
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="featureId" type="string">
  The ID of the feature to check access for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="productId" type="string">
  The ID of the product to check access for.
</ParamField>

## `check()`

Check if a user has access to a specific feature or product. This will make an API call to Autumn to check access. You can use this to always get the most up-to-date usage data.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function FeatureGate({ children }) {
  const { check } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        const { data, error } = await check({
          featureId: "chat-messages",
          requiredBalance: 7,
        });
      }}
    >
      Send 7 Messages
    </button>
  );
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="featureId" type="string">
  The ID of the feature to check access for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="productId" type="string">
  The ID of the product to check access for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="dialog" type="(data: any) => JSX.Element | React.ReactNode">
  A dialog that pops up to act as a paywall (eg, when a feature runs out). See
  the [billing flows](/quickstart/billing-flows) page.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="entityId" type="string">
  The ID of the entity (customer/user) to check access for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="requiredBalance" type="number">
  The required balance/usage amount to check against.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="sendEvent" type="boolean">
  Whether to send an event when checking access.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="withPreview" type="boolean">
  Return preview data to display to the user. Using this with a `featureID` will
  return paywall data, and using it with a `productId` will return
  upgrade/downgrade data.
</ParamField>

## `track()`

Track usage events for features or custom analytics.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function ApiCallButton() {
  const { track } = useCustomer();

  const handleApiCall = async () => {
    // Make your API call
    await makeApiCall();

    // Track the usage
    await track({
      featureId: "api-calls",
      value: 1,
      idempotencyKey: `api-call-${Date.now()}`,
    });
  };

  return <button onClick={handleApiCall}>Make API Call</button>;
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="featureId" type="string">
  The ID of the feature to track usage for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="eventName" type="string">
  Custom event name for tracking.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="entityId" type="string">
  The ID of the entity (customer/user) to track usage for.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="value" type="number">
  The value/quantity to track (e.g., number of API calls, storage used).
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="idempotencyKey" type="string">
  Unique key to prevent duplicate tracking events.
</ParamField>

## `openBillingPortal()`

Open the billing portal for customers to manage their subscriptions, payment methods, and billing information.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function BillingSettings() {
  const { openBillingPortal } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        await openBillingPortal({
          returnUrl: "/settings/billing",
        });
      }}
    >
      Manage Billing
    </button>
  );
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="returnUrl" type="string">
  URL to redirect to when the customer exits the billing portal.
</ParamField>

## `cancel()`

Cancel a product or subscription for a user/entity.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CancelSubscription() {
  const { cancel } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        await cancel({ productId: "pro" });
      }}
    >
      Cancel Subscription
    </button>
  );
}
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="productId" type="string" required>
  The ID of the product to cancel.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="cancelImmediately" type="boolean">
  Whether to cancel the product immediately. If false, the product will be
  cancelled at the end of the billing cycle.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="entityId" type="string">
  The ID of the entity (customer/user) to cancel the product for.
</ParamField>

## `refetch`

Function to manually refetch the `customer` data, eg when updating a customer's usage or balance to display.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CustomerWithRefresh() {
  const { customer, refetch } = useCustomer();
  const { track } = useCustomer();

  const sendMessage = async () => {
    await track({ featureId: "chat_messages" });
    await refetch();
  };

  return <button onClick={sendMessage}>Send Message</button>;
}
```

## `createEntity`

Function to create one or more [entities](/features/feature-entities) for the customer.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CreateUserSeat() {
  const { createEntity } = useCustomer();

  const handleCreateSeat = async () => {
    const { data, error } = await createEntity({
      id: "user_abc",
      name: "John Doe",
      featureId: "seats",
    });
    console.log("Created entity:", data);
  };
}

return <button onClick={handleCreateSeat}>Create User Seat</button>;
```

**Parameters**

<ParamField body="id" type="string" required>
  The ID of the entity to create.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="name" type="string">
  Display name for the entity.
</ParamField>

<ParamField body="featureId" type="string">
  The feature ID for the entity being created. Must be a `continuous_use`
  feature.
</ParamField>

## `isLoading`

Boolean indicating whether the customer data is currently being fetched.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CustomerLoader() {
  const { customer, isLoading } = useCustomer();

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading customer data...</div>;
  }

  return <div>Welcome, {customer?.name}!</div>;
}
```

## `error`

Any error that occurred while fetching customer data.

```jsx
import { useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function CustomerWithError() {
  const { customer, error, isLoading } = useCustomer();

  if (error) {
    return <div>Error loading customer: {error.message}</div>;
  }

  if (isLoading) {
    return <div>Loading...</div>;
  }

  return <div>Customer: {customer?.name}</div>;
}
```
