quickstart/quickstart.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quickstart"
sidebarTitle: "Quickstart"
description: "Implement your app's pricing model in under 5 minutes"
---

Create your [Autumn account](https://app.useautumn.com/) and let's create the pricing for a premium AI chatbot.

We're going to have a "Pro" plan that gives users **10 chat messages per month** for **$20 per month**.

## 1. Create the product

Create the Pro plan in the [Products](https://app.useautumn.com/products) tab.

<AccordionGroup>

  <Accordion title="Create the Product">
    Click on the "+ Product" button and name the product "Pro".
    <Frame className="bg-transparent items-center gap-4 bg-[#fafafa]">
      <img
        src="/assets/quickstart/create-pro.png"

      />
    </Frame>
    </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Create the Messages Feature">
  Click the "+ Feature" button, and in the feature list, select "Create new feature".

  <Frame className="bg-transparent items-center gap-4 bg-[#fafafa]">
  <img src="/assets/quickstart/messages.png" />
  </Frame>
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Add the Product Items">
  Back on the products page, create a new product and name it "Pro". Click "+ Feature" and add a limit of 10 messages per month.
  
  Then click "+ Price" and a price of $20 per month.
  <Frame className="bg-transparent items-center gap-4 bg-[#fafafa]">
  <img src="/assets/quickstart/messages-item.png" className="" />
  <img src="/assets/quickstart/price.png" className="" />
  </Frame>
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## 2. Install `autumn-js`

To add the Pro plan to your app, first install the Autumn library.

<CodeGroup>

```bash npm
npm install autumn-js
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm add autumn-js
```

```bash yarn
yarn add autumn-js
```

```bash bun
bun add autumn-js
```

</CodeGroup>

<Note>
  If you're using a separate backend and frontend, make sure to install the
  library in both.
</Note>

## 3. Add your Autumn secret key

Create an [Autumn Secret API key](https://app.useautumn.com/dev) from the dashboard, and add it to your backend `.env` file.

```bash .env
AUTUMN_SECRET_KEY=am_sk_1234567890
```

## 4. Mount the Autumn handler server-side

This creates routes in the `/api/autumn/*` path, used by Autumn's React [hooks](/api-reference/hooks/useAutumn).

The handler takes in an identify function that returns a `customerId`. This is typically your internal user ID or organization ID from your auth provider. These examples use better-auth.

<CodeGroup>

```typescript Next.js
// app/api/autumn/[...all]/route.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/next";
import { auth } from "@/lib/auth";

export const { GET, POST } = autumnHandler({
  identify: async (request) => {
    const session = await auth.api.getSession({
      headers: request.headers,
    });

    return {
      customerId: session?.user.id,
      customerData: {
        name: session?.user.name,
        email: session?.user.email,
      },
    };
  },
});
```

```typescript Remix
// app/routes/api.autumn.$.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/remix";
import { auth } from "../lib/auth.server";

export const { loader, action } = autumnHandler({
  identify: async (args) => {
    const session = await auth.api.getSession({
      headers: args.request.headers,
    });

    return {
      customerId: session?.user.id,
      customerData: {
        name: session?.user.name,
        email: session?.user.email,
      },
    };
  },
});
```

```typescript Tanstack Start
// routes/api/autumn.$.ts

import { createAPIFileRoute } from "@tanstack/react-start/api";
import { auth } from "~/lib/auth";
import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/tanstack";

const handler = autumnHandler({
  identify: async ({ request }) => {
    const session = await auth.api.getSession({
      headers: request.headers,
    });

    return {
      customerId: session?.user.id,
      customerData: {
        name: session?.user.name,
        email: session?.user.email,
      },
    };
  },
});

export const APIRoute = createAPIFileRoute("/api/autumn/$")(handler);
```

```typescript Hono
//index.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/hono";

app.use(
  "/api/autumn/*",
  autumnHandler({
    identify: async (c: Context) => {
      const session = await auth.api.getSession({
        headers: c.req.raw.headers,
      });

      return {
        customerId: session?.user.id,
        customerData: {
          name: session?.user.name,
          email: session?.user.email,
        },
      };
    },
  })
);
```

```typescript Express
//index.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/express";

app.use(express.json()); // need to parse request body before autumnHandler
app.use(
  "/api/autumn",
  autumnHandler({
    identify: async (req) => {
      const session = await auth.api.getSession({
        headers: fromNodeHeaders(req.headers),
      });

      return {
        customerId: session?.user.id,
        customerData: {
          name: session?.user.name,
          email: session?.user.email,
        },
      };
    },
  })
);
```

```typescript Fastify
//index.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/fastify";

fastify.route({
  method: ["GET", "POST"],
  url: "/api/autumn/*",
  handler: autumnHandler({
    identify: async (request) => {
      const session = await auth.api.getSession({
        headers: request.headers as any,
      });

      return {
        customerId: session?.user.id,
        customerData: {
          name: session?.user.name,
          email: session?.user.email,
        },
      };
    },
  }),
});
```

</CodeGroup>
<Check>
  Autumn will automatically create a customer if the customer ID is new.
</Check>

## 5. Set up `<AutumnProvider />` client-side

Client side, wrap your application with the `<AutumnProvider>` component, and pass in your backend URL.

<Note>
  If you're using a fullstack framework like Next.js, your backend URL will be
  the same as your frontend URL (eg http://localhost:3000).
</Note>

```bash .env
AUTUMN_BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:8000
```

```jsx
import { AutumnProvider } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode,
}) {
  return (
    <html>
      <body>
        <AutumnProvider backendUrl={process.env.AUTUMN_BACKEND_URL}>
          {children}
        </AutumnProvider>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

<Info>
  `AutumnProvider` can also take in a `getBearerToken` function, which should be used
  for auth frameworks with separate backend and frontend, eg using Clerk with
  Express.

</Info>

## 6. Set up Payments

Call `attach` to redirect the customer to a Stripe checkout page when they want to purchase the Pro plan. Once they've paid, Autumn will grant them access to the features we defined.

<Warning>
  Make sure you've pasted in your [Stripe test secret
  key](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/apikeys) `sk_test_...` in the [Autumn
  dashboard](https://app.useautumn.com/integrations/stripe).
</Warning>

```jsx React {9}
import { useAutumn } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function PurchaseButton() {
  const { attach } = useAutumn();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        await attach({ productId: "pro" });
      }}
    >
      Upgrade to Pro
    </button>
  );
}
```

## 7. Integrate Pricing Logic

There are 3 key functions you need to handle the billing logic once the customer has purchased the Pro plan:

- `check` to see if the customer is allowed to send a message.
- `track` a usage event in Autumn.
- `customer` to display usage data in the UI.

<CodeGroup>

```jsx Client {11, 15, 16}
import { useAutumn, useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function SendChatMessage() {
  const { check } = useAutumn();
  const { customer, refetch } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <>
      <button
        onClick={async () => {
          let { data } = await check({ featureId: "messages" });

          if (data?.allowed) {
            //... send chatbot message server-side, then
            await refetch(); // refetch customer usage data
            alert("Remaining messages: " + customer.features.messages.balance);
          } else {
            alert("You're out of messages");
          }
        }}
      >
        Send Message
      </button>
    </>
  );
}
```

```typescript Server {3}
import { Autumn as autumn } from "autumn-js";

autumn.track({
  customer_id: "user_123", // same id as in the autumn handler
  feature_id: "messages",
});
```

</CodeGroup>

## 8. Next steps

Nice! You've now integrated Autumn into your application. Next, learn how to handle [billing flows](/quickstart/billing-flows) like upgrades, cancellations and paywalls by using Autumn's shadcn/ui components or building your own.

Commit message:

Update documentation for AI Builders and Quickstart: specify that the guide is for applications using Supabase functions, clarify the purpose of the Autumn handler routes, and enhance the explanation of the `<AutumnProvider />` component setup.

quickstart/quickstart.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quickstart"
sidebarTitle: "Quickstart"
description: "Implement your app's pricing model in under 5 minutes"
---

Create your [Autumn account](https://app.useautumn.com/) and let's create the pricing for a premium AI chatbot.

We're going to have a "Pro" plan that gives users **10 chat messages per month** for **$20 per month**.

## 1. Create the product

Create the Pro plan in the [Products](https://app.useautumn.com/products) tab.

<AccordionGroup>

  <Accordion title="Create the Product">
    Click on the "+ Product" button and name the product "Pro".
    <Frame className="bg-transparent items-center gap-4 bg-[#fafafa]">
      <img
        src="/assets/quickstart/create-pro.png"

      />
    </Frame>
    </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Create the Messages Feature">
  Click the "+ Feature" button, and in the feature list, select "Create new feature".

  <Frame className="bg-transparent items-center gap-4 bg-[#fafafa]">
  <img src="/assets/quickstart/messages.png" />
  </Frame>
  </Accordion>

  <Accordion title="Add the Product Items">
  Back on the products page, create a new product and name it "Pro". Click "+ Feature" and add a limit of 10 messages per month.
  
  Then click "+ Price" and a price of $20 per month.
  <Frame className="bg-transparent items-center gap-4 bg-[#fafafa]">
  <img src="/assets/quickstart/messages-item.png" className="" />
  <img src="/assets/quickstart/price.png" className="" />
  </Frame>
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## 2. Install `autumn-js`

To add the Pro plan to your app, first install the Autumn library.

<CodeGroup>

```bash npm
npm install autumn-js
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm add autumn-js
```

```bash yarn
yarn add autumn-js
```

```bash bun
bun add autumn-js
```

</CodeGroup>

<Note>
  If you're using a separate backend and frontend, make sure to install the
  library in both.
</Note>

## 3. Add your Autumn secret key

Create an [Autumn Secret API key](https://app.useautumn.com/dev) from the dashboard, and add it to your backend `.env` file.

```bash .env
AUTUMN_SECRET_KEY=am_sk_1234567890
```

## 4. Mount the Autumn handler server-side

This creates routes in the `/api/autumn/*` path, which will be used by Autumn's frontend React [hooks](/api-reference/hooks/useAutumn). These routes interact with Autumn's API (eg `attach`, `check`, `track`, `customer`) to handle the billing logic.

The handler takes in an identify function that returns a `customerId`. This is typically your internal user ID or organization ID from your auth provider. These examples use better-auth.

<CodeGroup>

```typescript Next.js
// app/api/autumn/[...all]/route.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/next";
import { auth } from "@/lib/auth";

export const { GET, POST } = autumnHandler({
  identify: async (request) => {
    const session = await auth.api.getSession({
      headers: request.headers,
    });

    return {
      customerId: session?.user.id,
      customerData: {
        name: session?.user.name,
        email: session?.user.email,
      },
    };
  },
});
```

```typescript Remix
// app/routes/api.autumn.$.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/remix";
import { auth } from "../lib/auth.server";

export const { loader, action } = autumnHandler({
  identify: async (args) => {
    const session = await auth.api.getSession({
      headers: args.request.headers,
    });

    return {
      customerId: session?.user.id,
      customerData: {
        name: session?.user.name,
        email: session?.user.email,
      },
    };
  },
});
```

```typescript Tanstack Start
// routes/api/autumn.$.ts

import { createAPIFileRoute } from "@tanstack/react-start/api";
import { auth } from "~/lib/auth";
import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/tanstack";

const handler = autumnHandler({
  identify: async ({ request }) => {
    const session = await auth.api.getSession({
      headers: request.headers,
    });

    return {
      customerId: session?.user.id,
      customerData: {
        name: session?.user.name,
        email: session?.user.email,
      },
    };
  },
});

export const APIRoute = createAPIFileRoute("/api/autumn/$")(handler);
```

```typescript Hono
//index.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/hono";

app.use(
  "/api/autumn/*",
  autumnHandler({
    identify: async (c: Context) => {
      const session = await auth.api.getSession({
        headers: c.req.raw.headers,
      });

      return {
        customerId: session?.user.id,
        customerData: {
          name: session?.user.name,
          email: session?.user.email,
        },
      };
    },
  })
);
```

```typescript Express
//index.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/express";

app.use(express.json()); // need to parse request body before autumnHandler
app.use(
  "/api/autumn",
  autumnHandler({
    identify: async (req) => {
      const session = await auth.api.getSession({
        headers: fromNodeHeaders(req.headers),
      });

      return {
        customerId: session?.user.id,
        customerData: {
          name: session?.user.name,
          email: session?.user.email,
        },
      };
    },
  })
);
```

```typescript Fastify
//index.ts

import { autumnHandler } from "autumn-js/fastify";

fastify.route({
  method: ["GET", "POST"],
  url: "/api/autumn/*",
  handler: autumnHandler({
    identify: async (request) => {
      const session = await auth.api.getSession({
        headers: request.headers as any,
      });

      return {
        customerId: session?.user.id,
        customerData: {
          name: session?.user.name,
          email: session?.user.email,
        },
      };
    },
  }),
});
```

</CodeGroup>
<Check>
  Autumn will automatically create a customer if the customer ID is new.
</Check>

## 5. Set up `<AutumnProvider />` client-side

Client side, wrap your application with the `<AutumnProvider>` component, and pass in your backend URL. This lets Autumn know how to reach the backend handler you mounted in the previous step.

<Note>
  If you're using a fullstack framework like Next.js, your backend URL will be
  the same as your frontend URL (eg http://localhost:3000).
</Note>

```bash .env
AUTUMN_BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:8000
```

```jsx
import { AutumnProvider } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode,
}) {
  return (
    <html>
      <body>
        <AutumnProvider backendUrl={process.env.AUTUMN_BACKEND_URL}>
          {children}
        </AutumnProvider>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

<Info>
  `AutumnProvider` can also take in a `getBearerToken` function, which should be used
  for auth frameworks with separate backend and frontend, eg using Clerk with
  Express.

</Info>

## 6. Set up Payments

Call `attach` to redirect the customer to a Stripe checkout page when they want to purchase the Pro plan. Once they've paid, Autumn will grant them access to the features we defined.

<Warning>
  Make sure you've pasted in your [Stripe test secret
  key](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/apikeys) `sk_test_...` in the [Autumn
  dashboard](https://app.useautumn.com/integrations/stripe).
</Warning>

```jsx React {9}
import { useAutumn } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function PurchaseButton() {
  const { attach } = useAutumn();

  return (
    <button
      onClick={async () => {
        await attach({ productId: "pro" });
      }}
    >
      Upgrade to Pro
    </button>
  );
}
```

## 7. Integrate Pricing Logic

There are 3 key functions you need to handle the billing logic once the customer has purchased the Pro plan:

- `check` to see if the customer is allowed to send a message.
- `track` a usage event in Autumn.
- `customer` to display usage data in the UI.

<CodeGroup>

```jsx Client {11, 15, 16}
import { useAutumn, useCustomer } from "autumn-js/react";

export default function SendChatMessage() {
  const { check } = useAutumn();
  const { customer, refetch } = useCustomer();

  return (
    <>
      <button
        onClick={async () => {
          let { data } = await check({ featureId: "messages" });

          if (data?.allowed) {
            //... send chatbot message server-side, then
            await refetch(); // refetch customer usage data
            alert("Remaining messages: " + customer.features.messages.balance);
          } else {
            alert("You're out of messages");
          }
        }}
      >
        Send Message
      </button>
    </>
  );
}
```

```typescript Server {3}
import { Autumn as autumn } from "autumn-js";

autumn.track({
  customer_id: "user_123", // same id as in the autumn handler
  feature_id: "messages",
});
```

</CodeGroup>

## 8. Next steps

Nice! You've now integrated Autumn into your application. Next, learn how to handle [billing flows](/quickstart/billing-flows) like upgrades, cancellations and paywalls by using Autumn's shadcn/ui components or building your own.
