quickstart/shadcn.mdx, before:

---
title: "Billing Flows using shadcn/ui components"
sidebarTitle: "shadcn/ui components"
description: "Drop in Autumn's shadcn/ui components to handle upgrades, downgrades, paywalls etc"
---

Autumn handles your billing flows, so you don't need to build and maintain user flows like:

- Purchasing a product
- Inputting quantities for prepaid products
- Upgrading, downgrading, cancelling or renewing a product's subscription
- Paywalling features
- Failed payments [coming soon]

You can use our customizable shadcn/ui components to handle these out-of-the-box, or use our React hooks and SDK to roll your own.

## Product Change

The attach dialog will open when a customer wants to change their active product, such as when they upgrade or downgrade, to let them preview how much will be charged, and confirm the change.

#### Install

<CodeGroup>
```bash npm
npx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/attach-dialog
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/attach-dialog
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/attach-dialog
```

```bash bun
bunx --bun shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/attach-dialog
```

</CodeGroup>
<img
  src="/assets/quickstart/ui-components/product-change-dialog.png"
  alt="Product Change Dialog"
  className="border"
/>

This will download the attach-dialog component in your `/components` directory, under a `/autumn` folder.

#### Usage

Pass in the `attach-dialog` component to the `attach()` hook. This allows Autumn to automatically open the attach dialog when they want to change their active product.

```jsx
import AttachDialog from "@/components/autumn/attach-dialog";
import { useAutumn } from "autumn-js/react";

<Button
  onClick={async () =>
    await attach({
      productId: "pro",
      dialog: AttachDialog,
    })
  }
/>;
```

Now when you use the `attach()` hook, Autumn will first call the `check({withPreview: true})` function to preview the purchase under the hood. The dialog will open if:

- The customer needs to input a quantity for their purchase (ie, if the product has prepaid prices)
- If the customer's payment method is already on file (ie, for upgrades, downgrades or add-ons).

When the customer confirms the purchase, Autumn will attach the product to the customer.

<Check>
  If there are no inputs required and it's a new customer (without an existing
  payment method), the customer will be redirected straight to the Stripe
  checkout page.
</Check>

#### Scenarios

The `check({withPreview: true})` call can return a [`preview` object](/api-reference/check#response-feature-preview) that contains a `scenario` enum, which is used to control the dialog's contents. It can be one of the following:

| Scenario    | Description                                                                                               |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `upgrade`   | The customer is upgrading their product                                                                   |
| `downgrade` | The customer is downgrading to another paid tier                                                          |
| `cancel`    | The customer is downgrading to a free product                                                             |
| `renew`     | The customer is reactivating a product that was previously cancelled                                      |
| `scheduled` | The product is already scheduled to start at a future date (eg, for downgrades), so no changes are needed |
| `active`    | The customer already has the product active, so no changes are needed                                     |

When you install `attach-dialog`, a `@/lib/autumn/attach-content.tsx` file is also installed. This file contains the dialog texts for each scenario, which you can customize how you want.

```tsx /lib/autumn/get-attach-content.tsx [expandable]
import { CheckProductPreview } from "autumn-js";

export const getAttachContent = (preview: CheckProductPreview) => {
  const {
    scenario,
    product_name,
    recurring,
    current_product_name,
    next_cycle_at,
  } = preview;

  const nextCycleAtStr = next_cycle_at
    ? new Date(next_cycle_at).toLocaleDateString()
    : undefined;

  switch (scenario) {
    case "scheduled":
      return {
        title: <p>Scheduled product already exists</p>,
        message: <p>You already have this product scheduled to start soon.</p>,
      };

    case "active":
      return {
        title: <p>Product already active</p>,
        message: <p>You are already subscribed to this product.</p>,
      };

    case "new":
      if (recurring) {
        return {
          title: <p>Subscribe to {product_name}</p>,
          message: (
            <p>
              By clicking confirm, you will be subscribed to {product_name} and
              your card will be charged immediately.
            </p>
          ),
        };
      } else {
        return {
          title: <p>Purchase {product_name}</p>,
          message: (
            <p>
              By clicking confirm, you will purchase {product_name} and your
              card will be charged immedaitely.
            </p>
          ),
        };
      }

    case "renew":
      return {
        title: <p>Renew</p>,
        message: (
          <p>
            By clicking confirm, you will renew your subscription to{" "}
            {product_name}.
          </p>
        ),
      };

    case "upgrade":
      return {
        title: <p>Upgrade to {product_name}</p>,
        message: (
          <p>
            By clicking confirm, you will upgrade your subscription to{" "}
            {product_name} and your card will be charged immediately.
          </p>
        ),
      };

    case "downgrade":
      return {
        title: <p>Downgrade to {product_name}</p>,
        message: (
          <p>
            By clicking confirm, your current subscription to{" "}
            {current_product_name} will be cancelled and a new subscription to{" "}
            {product_name} will begin on {nextCycleAtStr}.
          </p>
        ),
      };

    case "cancel":
      return {
        title: <p>Cancel</p>,
        message: (
          <p>
            By clicking confirm, your subscription to {current_product_name}{" "}
            will end on {nextCycleAtStr}.
          </p>
        ),
      };

    default:
      return {
        title: <p>Change Subscription</p>,
        message: <p>You are about to change your subscription.</p>,
      };
  }
};
```

## Paywall

A paywall that prompts users to upgrade to the next tier when they hit a usage limit, or don't have access to a feature.

#### Install

<CodeGroup>
```bash npm
npx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/check-dialog
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/check-dialog
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/check-dialog
```

```bash bun
bunx --bun shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/check-dialog
```

</CodeGroup>

<img
  src="/assets/quickstart/ui-components/paywall-dialog.png"
  alt="Paywall Dialog"
  className="border"
/>

This will download the `check-dialog` component in your `/components` directory, under a `/autumn` folder.

#### Usage

Pass in the `check-dialog` component to the `check` function (exported from the `useAutumn` hook).

```jsx
import CheckDialog from "@/components/autumn/check-dialog";
import { useAutumn } from "autumn-js/react";

const { check } = useAutumn();

const { data, error } = await check({
  featureId: "ai-messages",
  dialog: CheckDialog,
});
```

Now when you use the `check()` function, Autumn will automatically pass in the `withPreview: true` parameter. If `data.allowed: false` is returned for the feature, the paywall will open with the following details:

- The feature they don't have access to, or have run out of
- The next product tier they should upgrade to, in order to access the feature (or an add-on if no additional tier exists)
- A button that lets them purchase the next tier or add-on

#### Scenarios

The `check({withPreview: true})` call can return a [`preview` object](/api-reference/check#response-product-preview) that contains a `scenario` enum, which is used to control the dialog's contents. It can be one of the following:

| Scenario       | Description                                        |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `usage_limit`  | The customer has hit a usage limit for the feature |
| `feature_flag` | The customer doesn't have access to the feature    |

The `preview` object also contains a `products` array, which contains the products that the customer can purchase to access the feature.

When the `check-dialog` component is installed, a `/lib/autumn/check-content.tsx` file is also installed. This file contains the dialog texts for each scenario (depending on the available products), which you can customize how you want.

```tsx /lib/autumn/get-check-content.tsx [expandable]
import { CheckFeaturePreview } from "autumn-js";

export const getPaywallDialogTexts = (preview: CheckFeaturePreview) => {
  const { scenario, products, feature_name } = preview;

  if (products.length == 0) {
    switch (scenario) {
      case "usage_limit":
        return {
          title: `Feature Unavailable`,
          message: `You have reached the usage limit for ${feature_name}. Please contact us to increase your limit.`,
        };
      default:
        return {
          title: "Feature Unavailable",
          message:
            "This feature is not available for your account. Please contact us to enable it.",
        };
    }
  }

  const nextProduct = products[0];

  const isAddOn = nextProduct && nextProduct.is_add_on;

  const title = nextProduct.free_trial
    ? `Start trial for ${nextProduct.name}`
    : nextProduct.is_add_on
    ? `Purchase ${nextProduct.name}`
    : `Upgrade to ${nextProduct.name}`;

  let message = "";
  if (isAddOn) {
    message = `Please purchase the ${nextProduct.name} add-on to continue using ${feature_name}.`;
  } else {
    message = `Please upgrade to the ${nextProduct.name} plan to continue using ${feature_name}.`;
  }

  switch (scenario) {
    case "usage_limit":
      return {
        title: title,
        message: `You have reached the usage limit for ${feature_name}. ${message}`,
      };
    case "feature_flag":
      return {
        title: title,
        message: `This feature is not available for your account. ${message}`,
      };
    default:
      return {
        title: "Feature Unavailable",
        message: "This feature is not available for your account.",
      };
  }
};
```

## Pricing Table

The pricing table component displays your available products, the features available in each and any prices. It synchronizes with the products you define in Autumn.

#### Install

<CodeGroup>
```bash npm
npx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/pricing-table
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/pricing-table
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/pricing-table
```

```bash bun
bunx --bun shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/pricing-table
```

</CodeGroup>

This will download the pricing-table component in your `/components` directory, under a `/autumn` folder.

#### Usage

```javascript
import { PricingTable } from "@components/autumn/pricing-table";

export const PricingTableExample = () => (
  <div>
    <PricingTable />
  </div>
);
```

Commit message:

Update pricing table documentation: clarify the use of `productDetails` prop for enhanced pricing card information.

quickstart/shadcn.mdx, after:

---
title: "Billing Flows using shadcn/ui components"
sidebarTitle: "shadcn/ui components"
description: "Drop in Autumn's shadcn/ui components to handle upgrades, downgrades, paywalls etc"
---

Autumn handles your billing flows, so you don't need to build and maintain user flows like:

- Purchasing a product
- Inputting quantities for prepaid products
- Upgrading, downgrading, cancelling or renewing a product's subscription
- Paywalling features
- Failed payments [coming soon]

You can use our customizable shadcn/ui components to handle these out-of-the-box, or use our React hooks and SDK to roll your own.

## Product Change

The attach dialog will open when a customer wants to change their active product, such as when they upgrade or downgrade, to let them preview how much will be charged, and confirm the change.

#### Install

<CodeGroup>
```bash npm
npx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/attach-dialog
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/attach-dialog
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/attach-dialog
```

```bash bun
bunx --bun shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/attach-dialog
```

</CodeGroup>
<img
  src="/assets/quickstart/ui-components/product-change-dialog.png"
  alt="Product Change Dialog"
  className="border"
/>

This will download the attach-dialog component in your `/components` directory, under a `/autumn` folder.

#### Usage

Pass in the `attach-dialog` component to the `attach()` hook. This allows Autumn to automatically open the attach dialog when they want to change their active product.

```jsx
import AttachDialog from "@/components/autumn/attach-dialog";
import { useAutumn } from "autumn-js/react";

<Button
  onClick={async () =>
    await attach({
      productId: "pro",
      dialog: AttachDialog,
    })
  }
/>;
```

Now when you use the `attach()` hook, Autumn will first call the `check({withPreview: true})` function to preview the purchase under the hood. The dialog will open if:

- The customer needs to input a quantity for their purchase (ie, if the product has prepaid prices)
- If the customer's payment method is already on file (ie, for upgrades, downgrades or add-ons).

When the customer confirms the purchase, Autumn will attach the product to the customer.

<Check>
  If there are no inputs required and it's a new customer (without an existing
  payment method), the customer will be redirected straight to the Stripe
  checkout page.
</Check>

#### Scenarios

The `check({withPreview: true})` call can return a [`preview` object](/api-reference/check#response-feature-preview) that contains a `scenario` enum, which is used to control the dialog's contents. It can be one of the following:

| Scenario    | Description                                                                                               |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `upgrade`   | The customer is upgrading their product                                                                   |
| `downgrade` | The customer is downgrading to another paid tier                                                          |
| `cancel`    | The customer is downgrading to a free product                                                             |
| `renew`     | The customer is reactivating a product that was previously cancelled                                      |
| `scheduled` | The product is already scheduled to start at a future date (eg, for downgrades), so no changes are needed |
| `active`    | The customer already has the product active, so no changes are needed                                     |

When you install `attach-dialog`, a `@/lib/autumn/attach-content.tsx` file is also installed. This file contains the dialog texts for each scenario, which you can customize how you want.

```tsx /lib/autumn/get-attach-content.tsx [expandable]
import { CheckProductPreview } from "autumn-js";

export const getAttachContent = (preview: CheckProductPreview) => {
  const {
    scenario,
    product_name,
    recurring,
    current_product_name,
    next_cycle_at,
  } = preview;

  const nextCycleAtStr = next_cycle_at
    ? new Date(next_cycle_at).toLocaleDateString()
    : undefined;

  switch (scenario) {
    case "scheduled":
      return {
        title: <p>Scheduled product already exists</p>,
        message: <p>You already have this product scheduled to start soon.</p>,
      };

    case "active":
      return {
        title: <p>Product already active</p>,
        message: <p>You are already subscribed to this product.</p>,
      };

    case "new":
      if (recurring) {
        return {
          title: <p>Subscribe to {product_name}</p>,
          message: (
            <p>
              By clicking confirm, you will be subscribed to {product_name} and
              your card will be charged immediately.
            </p>
          ),
        };
      } else {
        return {
          title: <p>Purchase {product_name}</p>,
          message: (
            <p>
              By clicking confirm, you will purchase {product_name} and your
              card will be charged immedaitely.
            </p>
          ),
        };
      }

    case "renew":
      return {
        title: <p>Renew</p>,
        message: (
          <p>
            By clicking confirm, you will renew your subscription to{" "}
            {product_name}.
          </p>
        ),
      };

    case "upgrade":
      return {
        title: <p>Upgrade to {product_name}</p>,
        message: (
          <p>
            By clicking confirm, you will upgrade your subscription to{" "}
            {product_name} and your card will be charged immediately.
          </p>
        ),
      };

    case "downgrade":
      return {
        title: <p>Downgrade to {product_name}</p>,
        message: (
          <p>
            By clicking confirm, your current subscription to{" "}
            {current_product_name} will be cancelled and a new subscription to{" "}
            {product_name} will begin on {nextCycleAtStr}.
          </p>
        ),
      };

    case "cancel":
      return {
        title: <p>Cancel</p>,
        message: (
          <p>
            By clicking confirm, your subscription to {current_product_name}{" "}
            will end on {nextCycleAtStr}.
          </p>
        ),
      };

    default:
      return {
        title: <p>Change Subscription</p>,
        message: <p>You are about to change your subscription.</p>,
      };
  }
};
```

## Paywall

A paywall that prompts users to upgrade to the next tier when they hit a usage limit, or don't have access to a feature.

#### Install

<CodeGroup>
```bash npm
npx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/check-dialog
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/check-dialog
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/check-dialog
```

```bash bun
bunx --bun shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/check-dialog
```

</CodeGroup>

<img
  src="/assets/quickstart/ui-components/paywall-dialog.png"
  alt="Paywall Dialog"
  className="border"
/>

This will download the `check-dialog` component in your `/components` directory, under a `/autumn` folder.

#### Usage

Pass in the `check-dialog` component to the `check` function (exported from the `useAutumn` hook).

```jsx
import CheckDialog from "@/components/autumn/check-dialog";
import { useAutumn } from "autumn-js/react";

const { check } = useAutumn();

const { data, error } = await check({
  featureId: "ai-messages",
  dialog: CheckDialog,
});
```

Now when you use the `check()` function, Autumn will automatically pass in the `withPreview: true` parameter. If `data.allowed: false` is returned for the feature, the paywall will open with the following details:

- The feature they don't have access to, or have run out of
- The next product tier they should upgrade to, in order to access the feature (or an add-on if no additional tier exists)
- A button that lets them purchase the next tier or add-on

#### Scenarios

The `check({withPreview: true})` call can return a [`preview` object](/api-reference/check#response-product-preview) that contains a `scenario` enum, which is used to control the dialog's contents. It can be one of the following:

| Scenario       | Description                                        |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `usage_limit`  | The customer has hit a usage limit for the feature |
| `feature_flag` | The customer doesn't have access to the feature    |

The `preview` object also contains a `products` array, which contains the products that the customer can purchase to access the feature.

When the `check-dialog` component is installed, a `/lib/autumn/check-content.tsx` file is also installed. This file contains the dialog texts for each scenario (depending on the available products), which you can customize how you want.

```tsx /lib/autumn/get-check-content.tsx [expandable]
import { CheckFeaturePreview } from "autumn-js";

export const getPaywallDialogTexts = (preview: CheckFeaturePreview) => {
  const { scenario, products, feature_name } = preview;

  if (products.length == 0) {
    switch (scenario) {
      case "usage_limit":
        return {
          title: `Feature Unavailable`,
          message: `You have reached the usage limit for ${feature_name}. Please contact us to increase your limit.`,
        };
      default:
        return {
          title: "Feature Unavailable",
          message:
            "This feature is not available for your account. Please contact us to enable it.",
        };
    }
  }

  const nextProduct = products[0];

  const isAddOn = nextProduct && nextProduct.is_add_on;

  const title = nextProduct.free_trial
    ? `Start trial for ${nextProduct.name}`
    : nextProduct.is_add_on
    ? `Purchase ${nextProduct.name}`
    : `Upgrade to ${nextProduct.name}`;

  let message = "";
  if (isAddOn) {
    message = `Please purchase the ${nextProduct.name} add-on to continue using ${feature_name}.`;
  } else {
    message = `Please upgrade to the ${nextProduct.name} plan to continue using ${feature_name}.`;
  }

  switch (scenario) {
    case "usage_limit":
      return {
        title: title,
        message: `You have reached the usage limit for ${feature_name}. ${message}`,
      };
    case "feature_flag":
      return {
        title: title,
        message: `This feature is not available for your account. ${message}`,
      };
    default:
      return {
        title: "Feature Unavailable",
        message: "This feature is not available for your account.",
      };
  }
};
```

## Pricing Table

The pricing table component displays your available products, the features available in each and any prices. You can also pass in a `productDetails` prop to add information to the pricing card contents.

#### Install

<CodeGroup>
```bash npm
npx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/pricing-table
```

```bash pnpm
pnpm dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/pricing-table
```

```bash yarn
yarn dlx shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/pricing-table
```

```bash bun
bunx --bun shadcn@latest add https://ui.useautumn.com/pricing-table
```

</CodeGroup>

This will download the pricing-table component in your `/components` directory, under a `/autumn` folder.

#### Usage

```javascript
import { PricingTable } from "@components/autumn/pricing-table";

export const PricingTableExample = () => (
  <div>
    <PricingTable />
  </div>
);
```
